README.md, before:

<center>
    <img src="colorise-logo.png" />
    <h3 align="center">v1.0.0</h3>
    <div align="center">
        <a href="https://travis-ci.org/MisanthropicBit/colorise">
            <img src="https://travis-ci.org/MisanthropicBit/colorise.svg?branch=rgb_256_exts" />
        </a>
        <a href="/LICENSE">
            <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/MisanthropicBit/colorise.svg" />
        </a>
        <a href="https://pypi.org/project/colorise/">
            <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/colorise.svg" />
        </a>
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/colorise.svg" />
    </div>
</center>

---

`colorise` provides easy cross-platform text coloring for terminals/consoles.

## Features

* Supports 8, 16, 88, 256 colors and true-color.
* Colors can be specified by name, index, hexadecimal, HLS, HSV or RGB formats.

```python
>>> colorise.cprint('Hello', fg='red')
>>> colorise.cprint('Hello', fg=201)
>>> colorise.cprint('Hello', fg='#a696ff')
>>> colorise.cprint('Hello', fg='0xa696ff')
>>> colorise.cprint('Hello', fg='hls(0.6923;0.7960;1.0)')
>>> colorise.cprint('Hello', fg='hsv(249;41;100)')
>>> colorise.cprint('Hello', fg='rgb(167;151;255)')
```

* Custom color format akin to Python 3.0 [string formatting](https://docs.python.org/3.7/library/stdtypes.html#str.format).

```python
>>> colorise.fprint('{fg=red}Hello {bg=blue}world!')
>>> colorise.fprint('{fg=red}Hello {bg=blue}world!', autoreset=True)
```

* Automatically find the closest color based on the terminal's
  capabilities. Below is sprite of a [familiar plumber](/examples/mario.py).
  Pixels are specified as RGB so `colorise` automatically approximates colors
  for 256 and 16 color indices in the two right-most images.

<div align="center">
    <img src="/screenshots/mario-true-color.png" width="150" />
    <img src="/screenshots/mario-256-color.png" width="150" />
    <img src="/screenshots/mario-16-color.png" width="150" />
</div>
<div align="center">
    <i>From left to right: True-color, 256 color and 16 color.</i>
</div>
<br />

* Useful functions like [`highlight`](/examples/highlighting.py) that highlights
  individual characters in a string given a list of indices.

```python
>>> colorise.highlight('Hello world', indices=[0, 2, 3, 7, 9], attributes=[Attr.Italic])
```

---

`colorise` has been tested with the following terminals:

* [iTerm 3.2.9](https://iterm2.com/)
* Terminal.app 2.9.4 (421.1.1)
* The default Windows console (Windows 8.1)
* [ConEmu](https://conemu.github.io/) vX.X.X (Windows 8.1)

Something not working as expected with your terminal? Please report an
[issue](https://github.com/MisanthropicBit/colorise/issues) or submit a [pull
request](https://github.com/MisanthropicBit/colorise/pulls) using the
[contribution guidelines](/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Installation

It is recommended to install `colorise` via [`pip`](https://pip.pypa.io/en/latest/).

```bash
pip install colorise
```

## Usage

To print colored text, you can use the `cprint` function.

```python
>>> colorise.cprint('This has blue text and a green background', fg='blue', bg='green')
```

Additionally, you can specify colors via a format string passed to `fprint`.

```python
>>> colorise.fprint('{fg=blue,bg=green}This has blue text and a green background')
```

Text attributes are also supported.

```python
>>> from colorise.attributes import Attr
>>> colorise.cprint('This has blue text and a green background', fg='blue', bg='green', attributes=[Attr.Bold])
>>> colorise.fprint('{fg=blue,bg=green,bold}This has blue text and a green background')
```

You can find additional examples in the [`examples`](/examples) folder.

## Implementation notes

On Linux and Unix there are no 'dark' themed backgrounds (perhaps "bolded" or
"bright" colors are a better name, but do not truly represnt darkened colors),
so calling

```bash
>>> colorise.cprint("Isn't this wrong?", bg='darkred')
```

will not necessarily give the expected result. This is due to the many different
termnial/console types, making it is virtually impossible to correctly map color
names to their actual colors. Additionally, some consoles, such as iTerm and the
Windows standard console, lets you redefine colors, so that using logical
colornames is no guarantee for consistency. ``colorise`` assumes the following
available colors on all systems:

* Black
* Red
* Green
* Yellow
* Blue
* Magenta
* Cyan
* White

It is therefore best to stick to these systems colors which are more likely to
be present and "correct", like 'red', 'blue' and 'green'.

Commit message:

Shorten installation, move usage to future tutorial

README.md, after:

<center>
    <img src="colorise-logo.png" />
    <h3 align="center">v1.0.0</h3>
    <div align="center">
        <a href="https://travis-ci.org/MisanthropicBit/colorise">
            <img src="https://travis-ci.org/MisanthropicBit/colorise.svg?branch=rgb_256_exts" />
        </a>
        <a href="/LICENSE">
            <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/MisanthropicBit/colorise.svg" />
        </a>
        <a href="https://pypi.org/project/colorise/">
            <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/colorise.svg" />
        </a>
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/colorise.svg" />
    </div>
</center>

---

`colorise` provides easy cross-platform text coloring for terminals/consoles.

## Features

* Supports 8, 16, 88, 256 colors and true-color.
* Colors can be specified by name, index, hexadecimal, HLS, HSV or RGB formats.

```python
>>> colorise.cprint('Hello', fg='red')
>>> colorise.cprint('Hello', fg=201)
>>> colorise.cprint('Hello', fg='#a696ff')
>>> colorise.cprint('Hello', fg='0xa696ff')
>>> colorise.cprint('Hello', fg='hls(0.6923;0.7960;1.0)')
>>> colorise.cprint('Hello', fg='hsv(249;41;100)')
>>> colorise.cprint('Hello', fg='rgb(167;151;255)')
```

* Custom color format akin to Python 3.0 [string formatting](https://docs.python.org/3.7/library/stdtypes.html#str.format).

```python
>>> colorise.fprint('{fg=red}Hello {bg=blue}world!')
>>> colorise.fprint('{fg=red}Hello {bg=blue}world!', autoreset=True)
```

* Automatically find the closest color based on the terminal's
  capabilities. Below is sprite of a [familiar plumber](/examples/mario.py).
  Pixels are specified as RGB so `colorise` automatically approximates colors
  for 256 and 16 color indices in the two right-most images.

<div align="center">
    <img src="/screenshots/mario-true-color.png" width="150" />
    <img src="/screenshots/mario-256-color.png" width="150" />
    <img src="/screenshots/mario-16-color.png" width="150" />
</div>
<div align="center">
    <i>From left to right: True-color, 256 color and 16 color.</i>
</div>
<br />

* Useful functions like [`highlight`](/examples/highlighting.py) that highlights
  individual characters in a string given a list of indices.

```python
>>> colorise.highlight('Hello world', indices=[0, 2, 3, 7, 9], attributes=[Attr.Italic])
```

---

`colorise` has been tested with the following terminals:

* [iTerm 3.2.9](https://iterm2.com/)
* Terminal.app 2.9.4 (421.1.1)
* The default Windows console (Windows 8.1)
* [ConEmu](https://conemu.github.io/) vX.X.X (Windows 8.1)

Something not working as expected with your terminal? Please report an
[issue](https://github.com/MisanthropicBit/colorise/issues) or submit a [pull
request](https://github.com/MisanthropicBit/colorise/pulls) using the
[contribution guidelines](/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Installation

Install `colorise` via [`pip`](https://pip.pypa.io/en/latest/).

```bash
pip install colorise
```

To get started check out the [tutorial](), [docs]() or the examples in the
[`examples`](/examples) folder.

## Implementation notes

On Linux and Unix there are no 'dark' themed backgrounds (perhaps "bolded" or
"bright" colors are a better name, but do not truly represnt darkened colors),
so calling

```bash
>>> colorise.cprint("Isn't this wrong?", bg='darkred')
```

will not necessarily give the expected result. This is due to the many different
termnial/console types, making it is virtually impossible to correctly map color
names to their actual colors. Additionally, some consoles, such as iTerm and the
Windows standard console, lets you redefine colors, so that using logical
colornames is no guarantee for consistency. ``colorise`` assumes the following
available colors on all systems:

* Black
* Red
* Green
* Yellow
* Blue
* Magenta
* Cyan
* White

It is therefore best to stick to these systems colors which are more likely to
be present and "correct", like 'red', 'blue' and 'green'.
