README.rst, before:

colorise v0.1.3
===============

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/MisanthropicBit/colorise.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/MisanthropicBit/colorise

.. image:: https://pypip.in/license/colorise/badge.png
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/colorise/

Provides cross-platform text coloring for consoles, useful functions and a nestable color format syntax.

``colorise`` has been tested with Python 2.6, 2.7, 3.2 and 3.3.

Installation:
-------------
You can install via `pip <https://pip.pypa.io/en/latest/>`_::

    pip install colorise

Alternatively, if you downloaded the source files, just run the following command from the
download directory::

    python setup.py install

Usage:
------

There are a number of ways to color the foreground- and background colors of the output to the console.
You can find additional examples in the ``/examples`` folder.

You can directly set the color:

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MisanthropicBit/colorise/master/screenshots/set_color_usage.png
    :alt: Using the set_color function

You can print some text in a predefined color

.. code::

    >>> colorise.cprint("Error: Expected a string, found int", fg='red', bg='darkgreen')

``colorise`` has a special color format syntax that allows for nested expressions as well:

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MisanthropicBit/colorise/master/screenshots/fprint_usage.png
    :alt: Print color formatted text

There are a few useful tools as well:

.. code::

    >>> colorise.formatcolor("Format me, please!", bg='darkred')
    "<bg=darkred:Format me, please!>"
    >>> colorise.formatbyindex("Format me as well!", fg='blue', indices=[4, 17, 3, 5, 10])
    "For<fg=blue:mat> me <fg=blue:a>s well<fg=blue:!>"

``colorise.highlight`` behaves like ``colorise.formatbyindex``, but will write the output instead
of returning a string:

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MisanthropicBit/colorise/master/screenshots/highlight_usage.png
    :alt: Highlighting select characters in a string

If you have a ``<`` or ``>`` in your string, you can escape it with a backslash ``\``. The backslash
is automatically removed. Colons, escaped or not, ``:`` are ignored if they appear as text.

.. code::

    >>> colorise.fprint("<fg=darkpurple:Some : \> silly \< string>")

Implementation notes
--------------------
On Linux and Unix there are no 'dark' themed backgrounds, so calling

.. code::

    >>> colorise.cprint("Isn't this wrong?", bg='darkred')

will just set the background color to red. Also, 'normal' and 'dark' colors are either normal/bright colors,
or normal/dark depending on the underlying platform, and may not necessarily appear as very dark.

Due to the many different termnial/console types, it is virtually impossible to correctly map color names to
their actual colors. You may see variations (like 'yellow' showing up as brownish) or other discrepancies. ``colorise``
assumes the following available colors:

- Black
- Red
- Green
- Yellow
- Blue
- Magenta
- Cyan
- White

It is therefore best to stick to colors which are more likely to be present and correct, like 'red', 'blue' and 'green'.

Commit message:

Added OSX and Xubuntu screenshots, updated their names and README, and fixed a bug on nix systems

README.rst, after:

colorise v0.1.3
===============

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/MisanthropicBit/colorise.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/MisanthropicBit/colorise

.. image:: https://pypip.in/license/colorise/badge.png
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/colorise/

Provides cross-platform text coloring for consoles, useful functions and a nestable color format syntax.

``colorise`` has been tested with Python 2.6, 2.7, 3.2 and 3.3.

Installation:
-------------
You can install via `pip <https://pip.pypa.io/en/latest/>`_::

    pip install colorise

Alternatively, if you downloaded the source files, just run the following command from the
download directory::

    python setup.py install

Usage:
------

There are a number of ways to color the foreground- and background colors of the output to the console.
You can find additional examples in the ``/examples`` folder.

You can directly set the color:

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MisanthropicBit/colorise/master/screenshots/set_color_usage_win.png
    :alt: Using the set_color function

You can print some text in a predefined color

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MisanthropicBit/colorise/master/screenshots/cprint_usage_xubuntu.png
    :alt: Using the cprint function to color a string

``colorise`` has a special color format syntax that allows for nested expressions as well:

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MisanthropicBit/colorise/master/screenshots/fprint_usage_win.png
    :alt: Print color formatted text

There are a few useful tools as well:

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MisanthropicBit/colorise/master/screenshots/formatcolor_usage_mac.png
    :alt: Format a string in colors

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MisanthropicBit/colorise/master/screenshots/formatbyindex_usage_mac.png
    :alt: Format a string in colors using a list of indices

``colorise.highlight`` behaves like ``colorise.formatbyindex``, but will write the output instead
of returning a string:

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MisanthropicBit/colorise/master/screenshots/highlight_usage_win.png
    :alt: Highlighting select characters in a string

If you have a ``<`` or ``>`` in your string, you can escape it with a backslash ``\``. The backslash
is automatically removed. Colons, escaped or not, ``:`` are ignored if they appear as text.

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MisanthropicBit/colorise/master/screenshots/fprint_escapes_usage_mac.png
    :alt: Use of escapes in a color format string

Implementation notes
--------------------
On Linux and Unix there are no 'dark' themed backgrounds (perhaps "bolded" colors which do not truly represnt darkened colors),
so calling

.. code::

    >>> colorise.cprint("Isn't this wrong?", bg='darkred')

will just set the background color to red.

Due to the many different termnial/console types, it is virtually impossible to correctly map color names to
their actual colors. You may see variations (like 'yellow' showing up as brownish, e.g. on my Xubuntu box) or
other discrepancies. ``colorise`` assumes the following available colors:

- Black
- Red
- Green
- Yellow
- Blue
- Magenta
- Cyan
- White

It is therefore best to stick to colors which are more likely to be present and correct, like 'red', 'blue' and 'green'.
